# Programming 1 Lab P1 -- Logbook
## Oct 16, 2025

## Preparation
### Sec 2.1
1. The call to the `print` function is missing a closing bracket. Instead of `print("Hello, World!")`, the code listed shows `print("Hello, World!"`.
2. The call to the `print` function is indented when it should not be.
3. The code is attempting to convert a string containing non-numeric characters to an integer.

### Sec 2.2
Valid Identifier Examples:
* `__count`
* `testCase_13`

Invalid Identifier Examples:
* `.count`
* `13_testCase`

### Sec 2.2.2
1. This statement is true.
2. This statement is false. (Eg if `x = "Hello"` and `y = "Hello"`, then `x == y` but `x is not y`.)
3. This statement is false. In the above example, `x is not y` is true, however `x != y` is false.
4. This statement is true. If two variables share the same identity, then they necessarily must share equality.

### Sec 2.2.3
`a`   | `not a`
------|-------
True  | False
False | True

`a` | `b` | `a and b` | `a or b`
----|-----|-----------|---------
True | False | False | True
False | False | False | False
True | True | True | True
False | True | False | True

### Sec 2.2.4
```py
speed : int = 30
message : str = "Hello, World!"
distance : int = 1
confirmation : str = "Yes"
turn_left : bool = True
time : float = distance / speed
```

### Sec 2.3.1
```py
def withdraw(amount):
    global balance
    if balance - amount < -20:
        print(f"ERROR : Insufficient Funds to withdraw £{amount}.")
        return 0

    balance -= amount
    return amount
```

### Sec 2.3.2
Input: | 51 | 52 | 53
---|---|---|---
Output: | a is greater than b | a is greater than b | a is greater than b

### Sec 2.3.3
Input: | A | B | C | D
---|---|---|---|---
Output: | letter is A | letter is B | letter is C | letter isn't A, B and C

## Lab Work
### Sec 3.2
1. `type(my_var) = int`
2. `type(my_var) = bool`
3. `type(my_var) = str`
4. `type(my_var) = float`

### Sec 3.3
Output from running `mypy`:
```
wrongcode.py:1: error: Incompatible types in assignment (expression has type "str", variable has type "int")  [assignment]
wrongcode.py:2: error: Unsupported operand types for + ("int" and "str")  [operator]
Found 2 errors in 1 file (checked 1 source file)
```

### Sec 3.4
The code first assigns and prints a variable called `age`, which is initialised to the value `42`. Then, the code checks if the value of `age` is greater than `17`. If the age is over 17, then the code prints out "You are older than 17" and "You can vote!" Otherwise, the code will display "You are not older than 17" and "You cannot vote!" After displaying those messages, the code will print out "Goodby", regardless of age.
